---
layout: post
title: "GitHub - Forks and Dark Forks"
date: 2026-5-20
tags: ["github"]
published: false
---

**Contents**
* TOC
{:toc}

# Problem Statement
Breakdown forks and dark forks, when do use them and why. And then how to develop around them with branch protections enabled.

# Terms 

* Forks: *repository that shares code and visibility settings with the original “upstream” repository*[^1]
* Dark Forks: also called a mirror repo or manual fork. A repo that points to the upstream repo via `git remote add` but is not created through the `Create a new fork` button
* Upstream
* Remote Repository
* Fork network

# Tradeoffs

|  | Pro | Cons |
|---|---|---|---|
| Fork | No Secrets | Public<br>Fork Network | 
| Dark Fork | Non-Public | Secrets |

Dark forks are preferred because they're not on the internet. An attacker can't create a PR against a fork dark and/or attempt the typical tried and true github workflow attack vectors. And secrets committed to the dark fork aren't exposed via the fork network, aka the internet. 

The downsides is that dark forks don't the normal secret protection that regular forks have. Secrets are directly passed to dark forks, whereas they're not inherited for regular forks. So a dark fork workflow can dump secrets without a `pull_request_target`. That said, regular forks can still expose secrets via `pull_request_target`. And the dark fork would need to enumerate your companies secret names first and then get a malicious workflow into the upstream repository, which is a non-trivial barrier. And it would make the attack specific to a single company, which is not great value.

# Upstream / Github / 

# Sync

# Working with Branch Protections

# References

[^1]: [https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/fork-a-repo](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/fork-a-repo)